- 👋 Hi, I’m @samuel-ntsua, an Analyst at UNC-Chapel Hill.<br>
👀 I am enthusiastic about data, around which I formulate reliable and rational arguments to transform business rules and concepts from often ambiguous and incomplete instruction into a working programming logic. At my current job, I harvest, move, transform, and store data while automating the process. I write scripts in bash, PowerShell, python, SQL, and Stata (and of course, using education sector data domain knowledge) to build multi-panel and hierarchical datasets out of administrative as well as survey data sources.<br>
As administrative data comes with unexpected patterns of inconsistencies, established best practices are no longer sufficient to tackle data quality issues. Besides, the varying demands of my Principal Investigators makes my daily job constantly evolving. This forces me to think creatively to solve data problems. Being the only IT person on a team of social science researchers, I am a initiative-taker with experience managing multiple timelines and changing priorities to deliver on targets.<br>
- 🌱 Is it possible to learn computer programming without computer? Unlike most developers, my first working computer program was not <br> print(“Hello World!”),<br> display "Helo World!"<br> print("Hello World!", quote = F)<br> System.out.printlln("Helo World!"), <br> console.log("Hello World!") nor std::cout << “Hello Word!”.<br> In fact, there was no screen to print to.<br>I learned to code QBasic and MS DOS on a blackboard and even passed a university course in QBasic programming. Little did I know that writing codes without seeing the output was preparing me for the abstract thinking found in modern software engineering, machine learning and cloud computing. This explains why I enjoy transforming ambiguous instruction into functional business logic.<br>
To most Econ graduates, model thinking is the basic core. But I took graduate level statistics, numerical analysis and multivariable calculus to deepen my analytical thinking during my formal education in Economics. I used my analytical, abstract, and model thinking to teach myself multiple programming languages and software development concepts. Those same problem solving and thinking tools are my motive to learn data science and machine learning in online bootcamps.<br>
- 💞️ Now, I am seeking the opportunity to join a team at mid-career Data Scientist, Data Engineer, or Machine Learning Engineer to consolidate my skills and apply my knowledge in a production environment.<br>
- 📫 If you think I can be a good fit for your team, please direct-message me on linkedIn (www.linkedin.com/in/samuelntsua). Generic messages make me feel I am talking/charting with a bot. To determine if I am a good match for your position as well as avoid lengthy back-and-forth, kindly include answers (as much as possible) to the following questions in your message to me:<br>
	a) Company/Department/Position you are recruiting for.<br>
	b) Describe what each stage of the interview contains for mid-career level. Because it is hard to prepare for interview while working full time, please direct me to resource to successfully ace each stage. I strongly believe my success is your success.<br>
	c) By day 45, 90 and 120, I will gain exposure to ….; By day 90 and 120, I am expected to ….<br>
	d) Has my future supervisor performed the duties of the position in the past? In other words, does s/he know what the position entail at a low level (not at a bird’s-eye view)<br>
	e) Base salary range, signing bonus, work from home options (Yes/No), stock options (Yes/No), profit sharing (Yes/No), relocation grant (Yes/No), student loan assistance (Yes/No).<br>
